Hello everyone. Welcome to
the second lesson of this module.
In this video, we will
identify the issues with
the Bayesian
Probability Update step
which we saw in
the previous lesson.
We will then present
a solution to the issues
highlighted using a log
odds representation.
Finally, in this video,
we will see the derivation of
the Bayesian log odds update step
required to update
the belief map.
As we have seen in
the previous video,
we can apply Bayes' theorem to
combine the previous
belief map with
the current measurement
information to create
a highly accurate occupancy grid
at each time step.
This is achieved by
the following function in
which n represents a
normalizing constant,
p of yt given mi is the
current measurement received,
and the belief at time t minus 1
over mi is the
previous belief map.
There is, however, a problem with
using this simple
Bayesian update.
To demonstrate the issue,
we will look at an example
of an update to
an unoccupied cell of
the occupancy grid with
a new unoccupied measurement.
Let's suppose we
have a cell which
previously had a low belief
of occupation,
6.38 times 10 to the minus 4,
and the new
measurement results in
low probability as well,
1.2 times 10 to the minus 5.
This means that the resulting
belief would be very low,
or 8.0 times 10 to the minus 7.
As you can see, all of
these beliefs are
quite close to zero.
Multiplication of
floating-point numbers
on a computer, however,
can lead to significant
rounding error
when multiplying small numbers,
which in turn can lead to
instability in the estimate
of the probabilities.
Further, the multiplication
of probabilities turns
out to be an inefficient way
to perform the belief update.
So our basic application
of Bayes' rules to
update beliefs over
the occupancy cells
is not looking good.
There is, however, a solution.
Instead of storing the belief map
with the values ranging from 0-1,
we can convert our beliefs into
log odds probabilities
using the logit function.
We first saw this logit function
in course three.
This leads to cell values
ranging from negative infinity
to positive infinity avoiding
the issue with numbers
close to zero.
The logit function takes
the natural logarithm of
the ratio of the
probability p and 1 minus
p. So it takes
probability values from
0-1 and maps them to
the entire real axis.
It is also possible
to transition from
the log odds domain
back to probabilities.
This is done by
taking the ratio of e
raised to the logit
of p divided by
1 plus e to the logit of p. We
now have an alternative
representation
for our cell probabilities.
So let's see how this
affects our Bayesian
update equation.
We will start this derivation
by the application of
Bayes' rule to p of
mi given y1 to t,
where mi is the current
occupancy grid map square at
location i and y1 to t are
the sensor measurements of
that cell from time one
to time t. Writing out
the full Bayesian update
for incorporating
the latest measurements
into our occupancy belief,
we get the following equation.
The first term in
the numerator is
the probability of
getting measurement
yt given the cell state at
all previous measurements.
The second term in the numerator
is the probability a cell
is occupied given all
measurements to time t minus 1,
and the nominator is
the probability of
getting the measurements
yt given all previous measurements
up to time t minus 1.
It should be noted that
the measurement yt is
separated from the rest of
the measurements of
y1 to t minus 1.
This is done as we would like to
update the occupancy grid with
only the most recent sensor
measurement rather than
storing all measurements and
applying them again every time.
Next, we will apply the Markov
assumption which ensures
the current measurement
is independent of
previous measurements if
the map state mi is known.
The next step is to expand
the measurement model p of y
given mi by the application
of Bayes' rule once again.
This results in
the probability of map cell
mi being the current
measurement multiplied by
the probability of getting
that measurement divided
by the probability of
grid cell mi is occupied.
We now substitute the
expanded measurement model in
blue into the main Bayesian
inference equation shown here.
This leaves us with
three terms in
the numerator and two
terms in the denominator.
We will now pass
this expanded form through
the logit function and then start
simplifying the
resulting expression.
Let's rearrange the term 1 minus
p before we write out
the resulting expression.
The denominator portion
of the log odds ratio
1 minus pmi given y1 to
t can be constructed by negating
the expression for
the probability
of a cell being occupied,
which is of course,
the probability that a grid
cell is not occupied.
Next, we form the log odds ratio
which is simply the log of
the ratio of the
probability a cell is
occupied to the
probability it is not.
There are many like terms in
this expression which we can
now cancel out as follows.
We arrive at the following
simplified expression for
the odds ratio with
only three terms each in
the numerator and denominator.
We rewrite the expression in
the original 1 minus p notation.
As you may have noticed,
this equation is better
viewed as three ratios.
The ratio of the probabilities
to 1 minus the same probability.
The first ratio is
the probability of
a cell being occupied
given a measurement y.
The second is the probability
a cell is not occupied,
and the third is
the prior belief that a cell is
occupied given all measurements
up to time t minus 1.
Finally, we apply
the log to our series of
probability ratios to arrive
at the addition of
three logit functions.
This is our final update equation
and has the nice property
of simply requiring addition
when a new measurement
is required.
The three terms can be written in
a convenient shorthand
where lt minus
1i is the logit of the belief
that cell i is occupied
at time t minus 1.
Similarly, l0i at time
zero and lti at time
t. We now arrive at
the convenient log odds
update rule for
Bayesian inference on
occupancy grid maps.
It is made up of
the three terms that are
combined at each time step
based on the latest
measurement data.
The first term the logit
of the probability of mi
given yt is the logit
formed using new
measurement information.
The probability
distribution p of mi
given yt is known as
the inverse measurement model.
We'll study how to do this in
the next video for LIDAR data.
Lt minus 1i is
the previous belief at
time t minus 1 for cell i,
and l0i is the initial belief
at time zero for the same cell.
The initial belief represents
the baseline belief that
a grid cell is occupied,
which is usually set to
50 percent uniformly as we
don't expect to have
prior information
that improves on this value.
It shows up in this equation
at every time step,
which is a bit surprising but is
simply a result of
the derivation that we
studied in this video and
adjusts the addition of
the first two terms to ensure
the updated belief is consistent
with the log odds form.
The Bayesian log odds has
two strong advantages over
directly updating probabilities.
The update is numerically
stable due to the logit mapping
of 01 probabilities to
the entire real axis,
and computationally, it is also
significantly more efficient as
it relies exclusively on addition
to complete all updates
of the occupancy grid.
Let's summarize what we
learned in this video.
We first identified some issues
with storing and updating
the occupancy grid with
a straightforward Bayesian
probability update.
We then saw how this issue
could be solved by
employing the log
odds representation
of the probability space.
Finally, we saw how
the Bayesian log odds update
is derived from Bayes' rule.
In the next video, we
will learn how to take
the Bayesian log odds
update and build
the required inverse
measurement model to update
the occupancy grid using
filtered 2D LIDAR data.
See you there.